# Prompt 2: Writing Machines

## DUE: September 20th by 12pm

> By accepting the invitation to play...a broad range of writers can begin to explore the affordances of computation as an expressive medium.
>
> James J. Brown, Jr in "Writing with machines: Data and process in Taroko Gorge"

## Readings

### Theory

* [Writing with machines: Data and process in Taroko Gorge](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lNeoyOyGNb_NlcjSIjtJSCviVfHxD9ZJ/view?usp=sharing)
* [Excepts from _#!_](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HlrswVt0o0B4qW-_icLiow9L66Lpi8TW/view?usp=sharing)

#### Examples

* [taroko.py](src/examples/taroko.py)
* [house.py](src/examples/house.py)
* [code-related prompts](https://platform.openai.com/docs/examples)

## Summary

As the epigrapht to this assignment indicates, this week is _somewhat_ about "play." In the spirit of our previous exploration of prompts,
we continue to understand what it means to say that the "[work] stops when the [process] has been elaborated." While Brown points out that 
"poems cannot be so easily linked back to the poet," he admits that "[t]o be sure there is no Taroko Gorge [without its author]."

In this prompt, we investigate what it means to be a dual author: one of process and product, with more control over the range of "puppetry"
that we might employ. Additionally, we take a step back in time and (perhaps forward) in complexity to explore language-_qua_-data-_qua_-technology
further. What does taking _more_ control of the process mean for us? How does it enable or limit our creativity? Is there a way to solve
these questions in our quest for expressive programming?

## Goals

* Explore pure code as an expressive medium
* Engage with developing "writing machines" via prompt engineering

## Tasks

* 2 poems which engage the idea of writing machines and programming languages
  * 1 which is a remix of "Taroko Gorge" (written by you in Python)
  * 1 which presents an original writing machine (machine/code generated by you via GPT, poem created using this generated code)
* Place code for both poems inside `src/` and place generated poems and prompts inside `writing/` directories

### Remix

When developing your remix, you might think about modifying the Taroko Gorge code in one of two ways:

1. Changing _functionality_
2. Changing _data_

Several of the examples below do one or both.

* [Takei, George; Mark Sample](https://www.samplereality.com/elit/takeigeorge.html)
  * Modification conceptualized around the actor playing Lieutenant Sulu on _Star Trek_
* [Tokyo Garage; Scott Rettberg](https://retts.net/tokyogarage.html)
  * A spirited rework of the original that converts it to a pirate/motorcycle gang narrative?

### New machines

Nick Montfort's _#!_ explores several different ways to invoke code to create poems. Some are very readable, some aren't. Each investigates one of the various types that Funkhouser comes
up with:

* Combinatoric
  * Limited word lists into new combinations
* Permutational
  * Elements of words into new "things"
* "Slotted" (i.e. "Templated")
  * Combinatoric, but make much more "sense" due to grammatical concerns forced on them

Choosing one (or more?) of these categories or creating your own category that utilizes some "rule", develop a GPT prompt to generate your own writing machine. Experiment with code generation prompts. Are you using zero-shot or few-shot technique? How much specification are you providing? Once you are satisified with the generated code, run it to produce the second poem. IT DOES NOT NEED TO MAKE SENSE!


